“My dear Professor, I’ve never seen a cat sit so stiffly.”
“You’d be stiff if you’d been sitting on a brick wall all day,” said Professor
McGonagall.
“All day? When you could have been celebrating? I must have passed a
dozen feasts and parties on my way here.”
Professor McGonagall sniffed angrily.
“Oh yes, everyone’s celebrating, all right,” she said impatiently. “You’d
think they’d be a bit more careful, but no — even the Muggles have noticed
something’s going on. It was on their news.” She jerked her head back at the
Dursleys’ dark living-room window. “I heard it. Flocks of owls . . . shooting
stars. . . . Well, they’re not completely stupid. They were bound to notice
something. Shooting stars down in Kent — I’ll bet that was Dedalus Diggle.
He never had much sense.”
“You can’t blame them,” said Dumbledore gently. “We’ve had precious
little to celebrate for eleven years.”
“I know that,” said Professor McGonagall irritably. “But that’s no reason to
lose our heads. People are being downright careless, out on the streets in
broad daylight, not even dressed in Muggle clothes, swapping rumors.”
She threw a sharp, sideways glance at Dumbledore here, as though hoping
he was going to tell her something, but he didn’t, so she went on. “A fine
thing it would be if, on the very day You-Know-Who seems to have
disappeared at last, the Muggles found out about us all. I suppose he really
has gone, Dumbledore?”
“It certainly seems so,” said Dumbledore. “We have much to be thankful
for. Would you care for a lemon drop?”
“A what?”
“A lemon drop. They’re a kind of Muggle sweet I’m rather fond of.”
“No, thank you,” said Professor McGonagall coldly, as though she didn’t
think this was the moment for lemon drops. “As I say, even if You-KnowWho has gone —”
“My dear Professor, surely a sensible person like yourself can call him by
his name? All this ‘You-Know-Who’ nonsense — for eleven years I have
been trying to persuade people to call him by his proper name: Voldemort.”
Professor McGonagall flinched, but Dumbledore, who was unsticking two
lemon drops, seemed not to notice. “It all gets so confusing if we keep saying
‘You-Know-Who.’ I have never seen any reason to be frightened of saying
Voldemort’s name.”
“I know you haven’t,” said Professor McGonagall, sounding half
exasperated, half admiring. “But you’re different. Everyone knows you’re the
only one You-Know- oh, all right, Voldemort, was frightened of.”
“You flatter me,” said Dumbledore calmly. “Voldemort had powers I will
never have.”
“Only because you’re too — well — noble to use them.”
“It’s lucky it’s dark. I haven’t blushed so much since Madam Pomfrey told
me she liked my new earmuffs.”
Professor McGonagall shot a sharp look at Dumbledore and said, “The
owls are nothing next to the rumors that are flying around. You know what
everyone’s saying? About why he’s disappeared? About what finally stopped
him?”
It seemed that Professor McGonagall had reached the point she was most
anxious to discuss, the real reason she had been waiting on a cold, hard wall
all day, for neither as a cat nor as a woman had she fixed Dumbledore with
such a piercing stare as she did now. It was plain that whatever “everyone”
was saying, she was not going to believe it until Dumbledore told her it was
true. Dumbledore, however, was choosing another lemon drop and did not
answer.
“What they’re saying,” she pressed on, “is that last night Voldemort turned
up in Godric’s Hollow. He went to find the Potters. The rumor is that Lily and
James Potter are — are — that they’re — dead.”
Dumbledore bowed his head. Professor McGonagall gasped.
“Lily and James . . . I can’t believe it . . . I didn’t want to believe it . . . Oh,
Albus . . .”
Dumbledore reached out and patted her on the shoulder. “I know . . . I
know . . .” he said heavily.
Professor McGonagall’s voice trembled as she went on. “That’s not all.
They’re saying he tried to kill the Potters’ son, Harry. But — he couldn’t. He
couldn’t kill that little boy. No one knows why, or how, but they’re saying that
when he couldn’t kill Harry Potter, Voldemort’s power somehow broke —
and that’s why he’s gone.”
Dumbledore nodded glumly.
“It’s — it’s true?” faltered Professor McGonagall. “After all he’s done . . .
all the people he’s killed . . . he couldn’t kill a little boy? It’s just
astounding . . . of all the things to stop him . . . but how in the name of heaven
did Harry survive?”
“We can only guess,” said Dumbledore. “We may never know.”
Professor McGonagall pulled out a lace handkerchief and dabbed at her
eyes beneath her spectacles. Dumbledore gave a great sniff as he took a
golden watch from his pocket and examined it. It was a very odd watch. It had
twelve hands but no numbers; instead, little planets were moving around the
edge. It must have made sense to Dumbledore, though, because he put it back
in his pocket and said, “Hagrid’s late. I suppose it was he who told you I’d be
here, by the way?”
“Yes,” said Professor McGonagall. “And I don’t suppose you’re going to
tell me why you’re here, of all places?”
“I’ve come to bring Harry to his aunt and uncle. They’re the only family he
has left now.”
“You don’t mean — you can’t mean the people who live here?” cried
Professor McGonagall, jumping to her feet and pointing at number four.
“Dumbledore — you can’t. I’ve been watching them all day. You couldn’t
find two people who are less like us. And they’ve got this son — I saw him
kicking his mother all the way up the street, screaming for sweets. Harry
Potter come and live here!”
“It’s the best place for him,” said Dumbledore firmly. “His aunt and uncle
will be able to explain everything to him when he’s older. I’ve written them a
letter.”
“A letter?” repeated Professor McGonagall faintly, sitting back down on the
wall. “Really, Dumbledore, you think you can explain all this in a letter?
These people will never understand him! He’ll be famous — a legend — I
wouldn’t be surprised if today was known as Harry Potter Day in the future
— there will be books written about Harry — every child in our world will
know his name!”
“Exactly,” said Dumbledore, looking very seriously over the top of his halfmoon glasses. “It would be enough to turn any boy’s head. Famous before he
can walk and talk! Famous for something he won’t even remember! Can’t you
see how much better off he’ll be, growing up away from all that until he’s
ready to take it?”
Professor McGonagall opened her mouth, changed her mind, swallowed,
and then said, “Yes — yes, you’re right, of course. But how is the boy getting
here, Dumbledore?” She eyed his cloak suddenly as though she thought he
might be hiding Harry underneath it.
“Hagrid’s bringing him.”
“You think it — wise — to trust Hagrid with something as important as
this?”
“I would trust Hagrid with my life,” said Dumbledore.
“I’m not saying his heart isn’t in the right place,” said Professor
McGonagall grudgingly, “but you can’t pretend he’s not careless. He does
tend to — what was that?”
A low rumbling sound had broken the silence around them. It grew steadily
louder as they looked up and down the street for some sign of a headlight; it
swelled to a roar as they both looked up at the sky — and a huge motorcycle
fell out of the air and landed on the road in front of them.
If the motorcycle was huge, it was nothing to the man sitting astride it. He
was almost twice as tall as a normal man and at least five times as wide. He
looked simply too big to be allowed, and so wild — long tangles of bushy
black hair and beard hid most of his face, he had hands the size of trash can
lids, and his feet in their leather boots were like baby dolphins. In his vast,
muscular arms he was holding a bundle of blankets.
“Hagrid,” said Dumbledore, sounding relieved. “At last. And where did
you get that motorcycle?”
“Borrowed it, Professor Dumbledore, sir,” said the giant, climbing
carefully off the motorcycle as he spoke. “Young Sirius Black lent it to me.
I’ve got him, sir.”
“No problems, were there?”
“No, sir — house was almost destroyed, but I got him out all right before
the Muggles started swarmin’ around. He fell asleep as we was flyin’ over
Bristol.”
Dumbledore and Professor McGonagall bent forward over the bundle of
blankets. Inside, just visible, was a baby boy, fast asleep. Under a tuft of jetblack hair over his forehead they could see a curiously shaped cut, like a bolt
of lightning.
“Is that where — ?” whispered Professor McGonagall.
“Yes,” said Dumbledore. “He’ll have that scar forever.”
“Couldn’t you do something about it, Dumbledore?”
“Even if I could, I wouldn’t. Scars can come in handy. I have one myself
above my left knee that is a perfect map of the London Underground. Well —
give him here, Hagrid — we’d better get this over with.”
Dumbledore took Harry in his arms and turned toward the Dursleys’ house.
“Could I — could I say good-bye to him, sir?” asked Hagrid. He bent his
great, shaggy head over Harry and gave him what must have been a very
scratchy, whiskery kiss. Then, suddenly, Hagrid let out a howl like a wounded
dog.
“Shhh!” hissed Professor McGonagall, “you’ll wake the Muggles!”
“S-s-sorry,” sobbed Hagrid, taking out a large, spotted handkerchief and
burying his face in it. “But I c-c-can’t stand it — Lily an’ James dead — an’
poor little Harry off ter live with Muggles —”
“Yes, yes, it’s all very sad, but get a grip on yourself, Hagrid, or we’ll be
found,” Professor McGonagall whispered, patting Hagrid gingerly on the arm
as Dumbledore stepped over the low garden wall and walked to the front
door. He laid Harry gently on the doorstep, took a letter out of his cloak,
tucked it inside Harry’s blankets, and then came back to the other two. For a
full minute the three of them stood and looked at the little bundle; Hagrid’s
shoulders shook, Professor McGonagall blinked furiously, and the twinkling
light that usually shone from Dumbledore’s eyes seemed to have gone out.
“Well,” said Dumbledore finally, “that’s that. We’ve no business staying
here. We may as well go and join the celebrations.”
“Yeah,” said Hagrid in a very muffled voice, “I’d best get this bike away.
G’night, Professor McGonagall — Professor Dumbledore, sir.”
Wiping his streaming eyes on his jacket sleeve, Hagrid swung himself onto
the motorcycle and kicked the engine into life; with a roar it rose into the air
and off into the night.
“I shall see you soon, I expect, Professor McGonagall,” said Dumbledore,
nodding to her. Professor McGonagall blew her nose in reply.
Dumbledore turned and walked back down the street. On the corner he
stopped and took out the silver Put-Outer. He clicked it once, and twelve balls
of light sped back to their street lamps so that Privet Drive glowed suddenly
orange and he could make out a tabby cat slinking around the corner at the
other end of the street. He could just see the bundle of blankets on the step of
number four.
“Good luck, Harry,” he murmured. He turned on his heel and with a swish
of his cloak, he was gone.
A breeze ruffled the neat hedges of Privet Drive, which lay silent and tidy
under the inky sky, the very last place you would expect astonishing things to
happen. Harry Potter rolled over inside his blankets without waking up. One
small hand closed on the letter beside him and he slept on, not knowing he
was special, not knowing he was famous, not knowing he would be woken in
a few hours’ time by Mrs. Dursley’s scream as she opened the front door to
put out the milk bottles, nor that he would spend the next few weeks being
prodded and pinched by his cousin Dudley. . . . He couldn’t know that at this
very moment, people meeting in secret all over the country were holding up
their glasses and saying in hushed voices: “To Harry Potter — the boy who
lived!”
THE VANISHING GLASS
early ten years had passed since the Dursleys had woken up to find
their nephew on the front step, but Privet Drive had hardly changed at
all. The sun rose on the same tidy front gardens and lit up the brass number
four on the Dursleys’ front door; it crept into their living room, which was
almost exactly the same as it had been on the night when Mr. Dursley had
seen that fateful news report about the owls. Only the photographs on the
mantelpiece really showed how much time had passed. Ten years ago, there
had been lots of pictures of what looked like a large pink beach ball wearing
different-colored bonnets — but Dudley Dursley was no longer a baby, and
now the photographs showed a large blond boy riding his first bicycle, on a
carousel at the fair, playing a computer game with his father, being hugged
and kissed by his mother. The room held no sign at all that another boy lived
in the house, too.
Yet Harry Potter was still there, asleep at the moment, but not for long. His
Aunt Petunia was awake and it was her shrill voice that made the first noise of
the day.
“Up! Get up! Now!”
Harry woke with a start. His aunt rapped on the door again.
“Up!” she screeched. Harry heard her walking toward the kitchen and then
the sound of the frying pan being put on the stove. He rolled onto his back
and tried to remember the dream he had been having. It had been a good one.
There had been a flying motorcycle in it. He had a funny feeling he’d had the
same dream before.
His aunt was back outside the door.
“Are you up yet?” she demanded.
“Nearly,” said Harry.
“Well, get a move on, I want you to look after the bacon. And don’t you
dare let it burn, I want everything perfect on Duddy’s birthday.”
Harry groaned.
“What did you say?” his aunt snapped through the door.
“Nothing, nothing . . .”
Dudley’s birthday — how could he have forgotten? Harry got slowly out of
bed and started looking for socks. He found a pair under his bed and, after
pulling a spider off one of them, put them on. Harry was used to spiders,
because the cupboard under the stairs was full of them, and that was where he
slept.
When he was dressed he went down the hall into the kitchen. The table was
almost hidden beneath all Dudley’s birthday presents. It looked as though
Dudley had gotten the new computer he wanted, not to mention the second
television and the racing bike. Exactly why Dudley wanted a racing bike was
a mystery to Harry, as Dudley was very fat and hated exercise — unless of
course it involved punching somebody. Dudley’s favorite punching bag was
Harry, but he couldn’t often catch him. Harry didn’t look it, but he was very
fast.
Perhaps it had something to do with living in a dark cupboard, but Harry
had always been small and skinny for his age. He looked even smaller and
skinnier than he really was because all he had to wear were old clothes of
Dudley’s, and Dudley was about four times bigger than he was. Harry had a
thin face, knobbly knees, black hair, and bright green eyes. He wore round
glasses held together with a lot of Scotch tape because of all the times Dudley
had punched him on the nose. The only thing Harry liked about his own
appearance was a very thin scar on his forehead that was shaped like a bolt of
lightning. He had had it as long as he could remember, and the first question
he could ever remember asking his Aunt Petunia was how he had gotten it.
“In the car crash when your parents died,” she had said. “And don’t ask
questions.”
Don’t ask questions — that was the first rule for a quiet life with the
Dursleys.
Uncle Vernon entered the kitchen as Harry was turning over the bacon.
“Comb your hair!” he barked, by way of a morning greeting.
About once a week, Uncle Vernon looked over the top of his newspaper
and shouted that Harry needed a haircut. Harry must have had more haircuts
than the rest of the boys in his class put together, but it made no difference,
his hair simply grew that way — all over the place.
Harry was frying eggs by the time Dudley arrived in the kitchen with his
mother. Dudley looked a lot like Uncle Vernon. He had a large pink face, not
much neck, small, watery blue eyes, and thick blond hair that lay smoothly on
his thick, fat head. Aunt Petunia often said that Dudley looked like a baby
angel — Harry often said that Dudley looked like a pig in a wig.
Harry put the plates of egg and bacon on the table, which was difficult as
there wasn’t much room. Dudley, meanwhile, was counting his presents. His
face fell.
“Thirty-six,” he said, looking up at his mother and father. “That’s two less
than last year.”
“Darling, you haven’t counted Auntie Marge’s present, see, it’s here under
this big one from Mummy and Daddy.”
“All right, thirty-seven then,” said Dudley, going red in the face. Harry,
who could see a huge Dudley tantrum coming on, began wolfing down his
bacon as fast as possible in case Dudley turned the table over.
Aunt Petunia obviously scented danger, too, because she said quickly,
“And we’ll buy you another two presents while we’re out today. How’s that,
popkin? Two more presents. Is that all right?”