“I’d be careful if I were you, Potter,” he said slowly. “Unless you’re a bit
politer you’ll go the same way as your parents. They didn’t know what was
good for them, either. You hang around with riffraff like the Weasleys and that
Hagrid, and it’ll rub off on you.”
Both Harry and Ron stood up.
“Say that again,” Ron said, his face as red as his hair.
“Oh, you’re going to fight us, are you?” Malfoy sneered.
“Unless you get out now,” said Harry, more bravely than he felt, because
Crabbe and Goyle were a lot bigger than him or Ron.
“But we don’t feel like leaving, do we, boys? We’ve eaten all our food and
you still seem to have some.”
Goyle reached toward the Chocolate Frogs next to Ron — Ron leapt
forward, but before he’d so much as touched Goyle, Goyle let out a horrible
yell.
Scabbers the rat was hanging off his finger, sharp little teeth sunk deep into
Goyle’s knuckle — Crabbe and Malfoy backed away as Goyle swung
Scabbers round and round, howling, and when Scabbers finally flew off and
hit the window, all three of them disappeared at once. Perhaps they thought
there were more rats lurking among the sweets, or perhaps they’d heard
footsteps, because a second later, Hermione Granger had come in.
“What has been going on?” she said, looking at the sweets all over the floor
and Ron picking up Scabbers by his tail.
“I think he’s been knocked out,” Ron said to Harry. He looked closer at
Scabbers. “No — I don’t believe it — he’s gone back to sleep.”
And so he had.
“You’ve met Malfoy before?”
Harry explained about their meeting in Diagon Alley.
“I’ve heard of his family,” said Ron darkly. “They were some of the first to
come back to our side after You-Know-Who disappeared. Said they’d been
bewitched. My dad doesn’t believe it. He says Malfoy’s father didn’t need an
excuse to go over to the Dark Side.” He turned to Hermione. “Can we help
you with something?”
“You’d better hurry up and put your robes on, I’ve just been up to the front
to ask the conductor, and he says we’re nearly there. You haven’t been
fighting, have you? You’ll be in trouble before we even get there!”
“Scabbers has been fighting, not us,” said Ron, scowling at her. “Would
you mind leaving while we change?”
“All right — I only came in here because people outside are behaving very
childishly, racing up and down the corridors,” said Hermione in a sniffy
voice. “And you’ve got dirt on your nose, by the way, did you know?”
Ron glared at her as she left. Harry peered out of the window. It was getting
dark. He could see mountains and forests under a deep purple sky. The train
did seem to be slowing down.
He and Ron took off their jackets and pulled on their long black robes.
Ron’s were a bit short for him, you could see his sneakers underneath them.
A voice echoed through the train: “We will be reaching Hogwarts in five
minutes’ time. Please leave your luggage on the train, it will be taken to the
school separately.”
Harry’s stomach lurched with nerves and Ron, he saw, looked pale under
his freckles. They crammed their pockets with the last of the sweets and
joined the crowd thronging the corridor.
The train slowed right down and finally stopped. People pushed their way
toward the door and out on to a tiny, dark platform. Harry shivered in the cold
night air. Then a lamp came bobbing over the heads of the students, and Harry
heard a familiar voice: “Firs’ years! Firs’ years over here! All right there,
Harry?”
Hagrid’s big hairy face beamed over the sea of heads.
“C’mon, follow me — any more firs’ years? Mind yer step, now! Firs’
years follow me!”
Slipping and stumbling, they followed Hagrid down what seemed to be a
steep, narrow path. It was so dark on either side of them that Harry thought
there must be thick trees there. Nobody spoke much. Neville, the boy who
kept losing his toad, sniffed once or twice.
“Yeh’ll get yer firs’ sight o’ Hogwarts in a sec,” Hagrid called over his
shoulder, “jus’ round this bend here.”
There was a loud “Oooooh!”
The narrow path had opened suddenly onto the edge of a great black lake.
Perched atop a high mountain on the other side, its windows sparkling in the
starry sky, was a vast castle with many turrets and towers.
“No more’n four to a boat!” Hagrid called, pointing to a fleet of little boats
sitting in the water by the shore. Harry and Ron were followed into their boat
by Neville and Hermione.
“Everyone in?” shouted Hagrid, who had a boat to himself. “Right then —
FORWARD!”
And the fleet of little boats moved off all at once, gliding across the lake,
which was as smooth as glass. Everyone was silent, staring up at the great
castle overhead. It towered over them as they sailed nearer and nearer to the
cliff on which it stood.
“Heads down!” yelled Hagrid as the first boats reached the cliff; they all
bent their heads and the little boats carried them through a curtain of ivy that
hid a wide opening in the cliff face. They were carried along a dark tunnel,
which seemed to be taking them right underneath the castle, until they
reached a kind of underground harbor, where they clambered out onto rocks
and pebbles.
“Oy, you there! Is this your toad?” said Hagrid, who was checking the
boats as people climbed out of them.
“Trevor!” cried Neville blissfully, holding out his hands. Then they
clambered up a passageway in the rock after Hagrid’s lamp, coming out at last
onto smooth, damp grass right in the shadow of the castle.
They walked up a flight of stone steps and crowded around the huge, oak
front door.“Everyone here? You there, still got yer toad?”
Hagrid raised a gigantic fist and knocked three times on the castle door
THE SORTING HAT
he door swung open at once. A tall, black-haired witch in emerald-green
robes stood there. She had a very stern face and Harry’s first thought
was that this was not someone to cross.
“The firs’ years, Professor McGonagall,” said Hagrid.
“Thank you, Hagrid. I will take them from here.”
She pulled the door wide. The entrance hall was so big you could have fit
the whole of the Dursleys’ house in it. The stone walls were lit with flaming
torches like the ones at Gringotts, the ceiling was too high to make out, and a
magnificent marble staircase facing them led to the upper floors.
They followed Professor McGonagall across the flagged stone floor. Harry
could hear the drone of hundreds of voices from a doorway to the right — the
rest of the school must already be here — but Professor McGonagall showed
the first years into a small, empty chamber off the hall. They crowded in,
standing rather closer together than they would usually have done, peering
about nervously.
“Welcome to Hogwarts,” said Professor McGonagall. “The start-of-term
banquet will begin shortly, but before you take your seats in the Great Hall,
you will be sorted into your Houses. The Sorting is a very important
ceremony because, while you are here, your House will be something like
your family within Hogwarts. You will have classes with the rest of your
House, sleep in your House dormitory, and spend free time in your House
common room.
“The four Houses are called Gryffindor, Hufflepuff, Ravenclaw, and
Slytherin. Each House has its own noble history and each has produced
outstanding witches and wizards. While you are at Hogwarts, your triumphs
will earn your House points, while any rule-breaking will lose House points.
At the end of the year, the House with the most points is awarded the House
Cup, a great honor. I hope each of you will be a credit to whichever House
becomes yours.
“The Sorting Ceremony will take place in a few minutes in front of the rest
of the school. I suggest you all smarten yourselves up as much as you can
while you are waiting.”
Her eyes lingered for a moment on Neville’s cloak, which was fastened
under his left ear, and on Ron’s smudged nose. Harry nervously tried to
flatten his hair.
“I shall return when we are ready for you,” said Professor McGonagall.
“Please wait quietly.”
She left the chamber. Harry swallowed.
“How exactly do they sort us into Houses?” he asked Ron.
“Some sort of test, I think. Fred said it hurts a lot, but I think he was
joking.”
Harry’s heart gave a horrible jolt. A test? In front of the whole school? But
he didn’t know any magic yet — what on earth would he have to do? He
hadn’t expected something like this the moment they arrived. He looked
around anxiously and saw that everyone else looked terrified, too. No one was
talking much except Hermione Granger, who was whispering very fast about
all the spells she’d learned and wondering which one she’d need. Harry tried
hard not to listen to her. He’d never been more nervous, never, not even when
he’d had to take a school report home to the Dursleys saying that he’d
somehow turned his teacher’s wig blue. He kept his eyes fixed on the door.
Any second now, Professor McGonagall would come back and lead him to his
doom.
Then something happened that made him jump about a foot in the air —
several people behind him screamed.
“What the — ?”
He gasped. So did the people around him. About twenty ghosts had just
streamed through the back wall. Pearly-white and slightly transparent, they
glided across the room talking to one another and hardly glancing at the first
years. They seemed to be arguing. What looked like a fat little monk was
saying: “Forgive and forget, I say, we ought to give him a second chance —”
“My dear Friar, haven’t we given Peeves all the chances he deserves? He
gives us all a bad name and you know, he’s not really even a ghost — I say,
what are you all doing here?”
A ghost wearing a ruff and tights had suddenly noticed the first years.
Nobody answered.
“New students!” said the Fat Friar, smiling around at them. “About to be
Sorted, I suppose?”
A few people nodded mutely.
“Hope to see you in Hufflepuff!” said the Friar. “My old House, you
know.”
“Move along now,” said a sharp voice. “The Sorting Ceremony’s about to
start.”
Professor McGonagall had returned. One by one, the ghosts floated away
through the opposite wall.
“Now, form a line,” Professor McGonagall told the first years, “and follow
me.”
Feeling oddly as though his legs had turned to lead, Harry got into line
behind a boy with sandy hair, with Ron behind him, and they walked out of
the chamber, back across the hall, and through a pair of double doors into the
Great Hall.
Harry had never even imagined such a strange and splendid place. It was lit
by thousands and thousands of candles that were floating in midair over four
long tables, where the rest of the students were sitting. These tables were laid
with glittering golden plates and goblets. At the top of the hall was another
long table where the teachers were sitting. Professor McGonagall led the first
years up here, so that they came to a halt in a line facing the other students,
with the teachers behind them. The hundreds of faces staring at them looked
like pale lanterns in the flickering candlelight. Dotted here and there among
the students, the ghosts shone misty silver. Mainly to avoid all the staring
eyes, Harry looked upward and saw a velvety black ceiling dotted with stars.
He heard Hermione whisper, “It’s bewitched to look like the sky outside. I
read about it in Hogwarts: A History.”
It was hard to believe there was a ceiling there at all, and that the Great
Hall didn’t simply open on to the heavens.
Harry quickly looked down again as Professor McGonagall silently placed
a four-legged stool in front of the first years. On top of the stool she put a
pointed wizard’s hat. This hat was patched and frayed and extremely dirty.
Aunt Petunia wouldn’t have let it in the house.
Maybe they had to try and get a rabbit out of it, Harry thought wildly, that
seemed the sort of thing — noticing that everyone in the hall was now staring
at the hat, he stared at it, too. For a few seconds, there was complete silence.
Then the hat twitched. A rip near the brim opened wide like a mouth — and
the hat began to sing:
“Oh, you may not think I’m pretty,
But don’t judge on what you see,
I’ll eat myself if you can find
A smarter hat than me.
You can keep your bowlers black,
Your top hats sleek and tall,
For I’m the Hogwarts Sorting Hat
And I can cap them all.
There’s nothing hidden in your head
The Sorting Hat can’t see,
So try me on and I will tell you
Where you ought to be.
You might belong in Gryffindor,
Where dwell the brave at heart,
Their daring, nerve, and chivalry
Set Gryffindors apart;
You might belong in Hufflepuff,
Where they are just and loyal,
Those patient Hufflepuffs are true
And unafraid of toil;
Or yet in wise old Ravenclaw,
If you’ve a ready mind,
Where those of wit and learning,
Will always find their kind;
Or perhaps in Slytherin
You’ll make your real friends,
Those cunning folk use any means
To achieve their ends.
So put me on! Don’t be afraid!
And don’t get in a flap!
You’re in safe hands (though I have none)
For I’m a Thinking Cap!”
The whole hall burst into applause as the hat finished its song. It bowed to
each of the four tables and then became quite still again.
“So we’ve just got to try on the hat!” Ron whispered to Harry. “I’ll kill
Fred, he was going on about wrestling a troll.”
Harry smiled weakly. Yes, trying on the hat was a lot better than having to
do a spell, but he did wish they could have tried it on without everyone
watching. The hat seemed to be asking rather a lot; Harry didn’t feel brave or
quick-witted or any of it at the moment. If only the hat had mentioned a
House for people who felt a bit queasy, that would have been the one for him.
Professor McGonagall now stepped forward holding a long roll of
parchment.
“When I call your name, you will put on the hat and sit on the stool to be
sorted,” she said. “Abbott, Hannah!”
A pink-faced girl with blonde pigtails stumbled out of line, put on the hat,
which fell right down over her eyes, and sat down. A moment’s pause —
“HUFFLEPUFF!” shouted the hat.
The table on the right cheered and clapped as Hannah went to sit down at
the Hufflepuff table. Harry saw the ghost of the Fat Friar waving merrily at
her.
“Bones, Susan!”
“HUFFLEPUFF!” shouted the hat again, and Susan scuttled off to sit next
to Hannah.
“Boot, Terry!”
“RAVENCLAW!”
The table second from the left clapped this time; several Ravenclaws stood
up to shake hands with Terry as he joined them.
“Brocklehurst, Mandy” went to Ravenclaw too, but “Brown, Lavender”
became the first new Gryffindor, and the table on the far left exploded with
